We saw earlier that lots of times
probabilities or counts of bigrams or
trigrams would be zero.
What do we do in these cases?
Let's think about this by
starting with what's called
The Shannon Visualization Method.
And this is what Shannon proposed
to visualize the actual engram
grammar that you've built by
maximum length of the estimation.
So here's the method, we choose a random
bigram according to its probability, so
this is a bigram with start as
the first word and then any other word
according to its probability, roll a die
and pick whichever bigram comes up.
So let's say we picked I as
a very likely first word, so
we picked start I as our first bigram.
Now, we choose another random bigram that
starts with that word w we just generated,
and whose next word is chosen
according to its probability.
So now we pick want,
then we've picked I want.
And now we go on until we happen
to choose the end of sentence.
So I want to, to eat, eat Chinese, Chinese
food, food end of sentence there we go.
So now we string these words together and
we generated a sentence.
So the Shannon Visualization Method
of it can show us a lot of things
about the engrams that we've built.
So for example, here's a grammar
language model trained on Shakespeare and
generating random sentences.
So here's some unigram sentences.
Every enter now severally so, let.
Hill he lat speaks, or!
Not very good sentences.
How about our bigrams?
Why dost stand forth thy canopy, forsooth.
He is this palpable hit the King Henry.
Live King.
Follow.
That was better.
This is beginning to
sound like Shakespeare.
How about this one?
Indeed the duke; and
had a very good friend.
Well, that sounds pretty good.
Sweet prince, Falstaff shall die.
And now let's look at the quadrigrams,
It cannot be but so.
Will you not tell me who I am?
That sounds very good.
Now, Shakespeare produced 800,000
words with a vocabulary of 30,000.
And it turns out that in those 800,000
words, he produced about those 30,000
words, he produced about
300,000 different bigram types,
so different, unique pairs of words.
But that's 300,000 out
of 30,000 squared or
out of 844 million possible bigram.
So if we multiply that out, 99.96% of
the possible bigrams were never seen.
They're also going to have zero
entries in the bigram table.
Vast number of zeros.
So that's just bigrams,
quadrigrams are even worse.
So the reason why those quadrigrams look
like Shakespeare is because those were
actual Shakespeare sentences.
Because following any
particular quadrigram,
really only one possible word can occur
in such a small corpus as Shakespeare.
And we can see that if we
look at a different corpus,
like the Wall Street Journal,
it's not Shakespeare.
So for example, here's some trigram
sentences from the Wall Street Journal.
They also point to 99.6 billion
dollars from 204.063% of the rates
of interest stores as Mexico and
Brazil on market conditions.
Sounds like the Wall Street Journal.
But here's two corpora of English, both
reasonable size corpora millions of words,
or at least a million words, no overlap
at all in the Shakespeare sentences and
the Wall Street Journal sentences.
So what's the lesson from this?
One lesson is the peril's of overfitting.
Engrams only work well for
word prediction if the test corpus
looks like the training corpus.
If you test on Shakespeare but
you trained on the Wall Street Journal,
you're not going to
predict words very well.
So in real life this just doesn't happen.
So we'd like to train robust models
that do a better job of generalizing.
And I want to talk about
one kind of generalization,
which is dealing with zeros.
So by zeros I mean things that never
occurred in the training set, but
do occur in the test set.
So let's look at some zeros.
Imagine that in the training set we had
phrases like denied the allegations,
denied the reports, denied the claims,
denied the request.
And we never saw deny the offer so
the probability
based on maximum likelihood estimation
of offer given denied the is zero.
Now, we go to a test set and we see
there's a sentence denied the offer,
denied the loan.
What's the probability of those sequences,
denied the offer and
denied the loan going to be?
Well, the probably is going to be 0
because we've trained our probabilities on
our training site, we're going to do a
very bad job if we're a speech recognizer,
we'll never recognize this phrase
if we're a machine translator,
we'll refuse to translate
into this phrase.
We're going to claim this phrase
is just not good English.
So this is a big problem we need to solve.
So bigrams with zero probability
mean that we're going to assign
zero probability to the test set.
And so, we can never compute perplexity.
We can't divide by zero.
So we're going to need to
find a way of dealing with
bigrams with zero probability.